1) Which sahaba did Prophet Muhammad (ﷺ) help to become free from being a slave by planting 300+ date palm trees?
Bilal ibn Rabah (ra)
Thawban ibn Bujdud (ra)
Zayd ibn Harisa (ra)
Salman al Farisi (ra) ✔️
Read the story

2) What is the virtue of reciting Ayatul Kursi before going to bed at night to sleep?
Takes away hunger
Gives you strength
You are protected from harm till sunrise ✔️
House in Jannah
Abu Hurairah (r) said: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) appointed me to guard the zakaah of Ramadaan, then someone came and started rummaging in the foodstuff; and at the end of the hadeeth he said:

“When you go to your bed, recite Aayat al-Kursiy, for there will remain with you a guardian from Allah, and no devil will approach you, until morning comes.”

The Prophet (ﷺ) said: “He told you the truth although he is a liar. That was a devil.” (Sahih al-Bukhaari 2311)

3) Which Prophet (as) had control of the Jinn and was able to talk to animals?
Sulaiman (as) ✔️
Dawud (as)
Yunus (as)
Musa (as)
Prophet Sulaiman (as) was known for his wisdom and knowledge, and was bestowed with many special gifts and powers, such as the ability to command wind and the mystical jinn, and could understand and speak the language of animals, birds and insects.

4) What does Zam Zam mean?
Holy water
Water well
Stop ✔️
Drink
Ibn ‘Abbaas said: The Prophet (ﷺ) added, “May Allah bestow Mercy on Ismaa’eel’s mother! Had she left the Zamzam alone (flowing without trying to control it) (or had she not scooped from that water) (to fill her water-skin), Zamzam would have been a stream flowing on the surface of the earth.”

5) What 2 things does a person lose if he/she misses Asr salah intentionally?
Friends
Family ✔️
Property ✔️
Time
Prophet Muhammad ﷺ said: “Whoever misses the `Asr prayer (intentionally) then it is as if he lost his family and property.” (Sahih Bukhari 552)

6) What is Az-Zaqqum?
Food for the people of hellfire ✔️
Drink for the people of hellfire
Home for the people of hellfire
Clothes for the people of hellfire
“Then indeed you, O those astray [who are] deniers, Will be eating from trees of zaqqum” (Quran 56:51-52)

7) What is Sidrat al-Muntaha?
Food for the people of Jannah
An olive tree of the farthest boundary
A lote tree of the farthest boundary ✔️
Drink for the people of Jannah
“And indeed he (Muhammad (ﷺ) saw him (Jibreel) at a second descent (i.e., another time), near Sidrat al-Muntaha (the lote tree of the utmost boundary, beyond which none can pass), near it is the Paradise of Abode, when that covered the lote-tree which did cover it!” (Quran 53:13-16)

8) What was the relation between Prophet Musa (alayhi as-salaam) & Prophet Haroon (alayhi as-salaam)?
Cousins
Brothers ✔️
Father & son
Friends
“And Allah sent Haroon, the brother of Musa as a support to Musa when He wanted to send him to Pharaoh, to call him to worship Allah. This was in response to the request of Musa:

“And We granted him his brother Haroon (Aaron), (also) a Prophet, out of Our Mercy” [Quran 19:53]

9) Which 2 surahs are for seeking protection in Allah from evil-eye & witchcraft?
Surah Yaseen
Surah Falaq ✔️
Surah Ikhlas
Surah Naas✔️
It was narrated that Abu Sa’id al-Khudri (r) said:

“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to seek refuge with Allah from the jinn and from the evil eye until the Mu’awwidhatayn (the last two chapters of the Quran, al-Falaq and al-Nas) were revealed, and when they were revealed he started to recite them and not anything else.” (Tirmidhi, Nasaa’i, Ibn Maajah)

10) Which of the following is not an example of Major Shirk?
Asking help from a Prophet
Going to a pious person’s grave for blessings
Denying Allah & His religion
Showing off ✔️
The Prophet ﷺ said:

”What I fear for you the most is the minor shirk, that is ar-riya. Allah will say on the Day of Judgement when He is rewarding the people for their actions: Go to those for whom you did riya for in the world then see if you find the reward with them.” [Ahmad (5/428, 429)]

11) What does Allah’s name Al-Mu’izz mean?
The One who dishonours
The One who will judge
The One who honours ✔️
The One who sees it all
Say (O Muhammad ﷺ): “O Allah! Possessor of the kingdom, You give the kingdom to whom You will, and You take the kingdom from whom You will, and You endue with honour whom You will, and You humiliate whom You will. In Your Hand is the good. Verily, You are Able to do all things.” (Quran 3:26)

12) Whose dua Allah will not accept? 2 answers.
A person who asks Allah many times
A person who asks Allah using a dead person as an intermediary ✔️
A person who asks Allah with tears
A person who asks Allah with no focus ✔️
Anas ibn Malik reported: If a drought became threatening, Umar ibn al-Khattab, may Allah be pleased with him, would ask Al-Abbas ibn Abdul Muttalib to supplicate for Allah to send rain.

Umar would say, “O Allah, we used to ask our Prophet, peace and blessings be upon him, to supplicate for rain and you would bless us with rain. Now we ask the uncle of our Prophet to supplicate for rain, so bless us with rain.” And so it would rain.

(Sahih al Bukhari 964)

The Prophet (ﷺ) said: “Know that Allah does not answer a du’aa from a distracted heart.”

(Tirmidhi, 3479; classed as hasan by al-Albaani in Saheeh al-Jaami’, 245)

13) Who was a first cousin of Prophet Muhammad (peace be upon him)?
Abdullah ibn al-Abbas (ra) ✔️
Abdullah ibn Umar (ra)
Khalid ibn Waleed (ra)
Abu Hurairah (ra)
Abdullah was the son of Abbas, an uncle of the Prophet ﷺ. He was born just three years before the Hijrah.

14) Who will get their book of deeds in the right hand on the Day of Judgment?
The disbelievers
The believers ✔️
The hypocrites
The leaders
“Then as for him who will be given his Record in his right hand will say: ‘Here! read my Record ‘Surely, I did believe that I shall meet my Account! So he shall be in a life, well‑pleasing. In a lofty Paradise,” (Quran 69:19-22)

15) What issue was Imam al-Bukhari (rh) born with and how as it fixed?
Deaf & fixed with medicine
Blind & fixed with medicine
Deaf & fixed with mother’s dua
Blind & fixed with mother’s dua ✔️
Read about his life

16) Who was Umar bin Abdul Aziz (r)? 2 answers.
A companion of the Prophet (ﷺ)
A caliph of Islamic empire ✔️
Grandson of Umar ibn al-Khattab
Great grandson of Umar ibn al-Khattab ✔️
Read about his amazing life 

17) In Jannah, what is Tuba?
A fruit
A tree ✔️
A river
A door
“Those who believe, and work righteousness, Tuba is for them and a beautiful place of (final) return.” (Quran 13:29)

Imam Ahmad recorded that Abu Sa’id Al-Khudri said that a man asked,

“O Allah’s Messenger! Tuba for those who saw you and believed in you!”

The Prophet ﷺ said, “Tuba is for he who saw me and believed in me. Tuba, and another Tuba, and another Tuba for he who believed in me, but did not see me.” A man asked, “What is Tuba?”

The Prophet ﷺ said, “A tree in Paradise whose width is a hundred years, and the clothes of the people of Paradise are taken from its bark.”

18) What does Allah’s name Al-Ghani mean?
The Giver
The Protector
The Independant ✔️
The Wise
“O mankind! You are the poor ones in need of Allah, where as Allah is the Rich Beyond Need , the Praiseworthy.” (Quran 35:15)

19) Which Surah was favoured over the rest of the Quran with two prostrations?
Surah Hajj ✔️
Surah Tawbah
Surah Muhammad
Surah Yaseen
Amr bin Al-Ass (r) narrated that “The Prophet (ﷺ) taught him (to read) 15 Sajda, 3 of which are in the Mufassal and 2 of which are in Surah Al-Hajj (22)”. [Abu Dawud, Al-Hakim, Ibn Majah, Daruqutni and Al-Mundiri said that ‘it is a sound Hadith’]

20) Which is not one of the rights of a Muslim upon another Muslim?
If one invites, you accept it
If one dies, you attend the funeral
If one asks for advice, you give sincerely
If one asks for money, you give ✔️
Prophet Muhammad ﷺ said: “The rights of one Muslim over another are five: returning the greeting of salaam, visiting the sick, attending funerals, accepting invitations, and saying yarhamuk Allah (may Allah have mercy on you) to one who sneezes.” (Al-Bukhari (1240) and Muslim (2162))
21) Which Surah is referred as the oft-repeating verses Surah?
Surah Ikhlas
Surah Fatihah ✔️
Surah Naas
Surah Rahman
Abu Sa‘eed al-Mu‘alla (r) that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said to him: “I will surely teach you a soorah that is the greatest soorah in the Qur’an…” Then he said: “Al-hamdu Lillahi Rabb al-‘Aalameen… It is the seven oft-repeated verses and the Glorious Qur’an that I have been given (cf. al-Hijr 15:87).” (Bukhari 4474)

22) Which Angel will blow the horn to signal the Day of Judgement?
Jibraeel (as)
Mikaeel (as)
Malik Ul Moat (as)
Israfeel (as) ✔️
Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said, “How can I feel at ease when the Angel of the Trumpet, (Israfil) has put his lips to the Trumpet and is waiting for the order to blow it”. (Tirmidhi, Hasan)

23) Which Prophet (as) addressed the ruler King Nimrod?
Prophet Ibrahim (as) ✔️
Prophet Isa (as)
Prophet Yusuf (as)
Prophet Lut (as)
The Tafseer of Muhammad al-Kittaani Al-Idreesi reads, “Nimrood, the dictator and tyrant who considered himself to be god, the disbeliever, tried to inflict harm upon Ibrahim (Abraham), but Allah gave a sweeping victory to Ibrahim as Allah hit Nimrood and his people with the smallest and most despicable creation.

He sent mosquitoes upon them; a mosquito would enter their ears, and then their nostrils, and it would keep moving until it reached their brain; as a result, they died.”

24) Which uncle of Prophet Muhammad (peace be upon him) didn’t accept Islam?
Abdul Muttalib
Hamza
Abu Lahab ✔️
Al-Abbas
“Perished be the hands of Abu Lahab and ruined he be, Neither his wealth nor what he has earned shall avail him. He shall shortly roast in a flaming fire. And his wife — laden with faggots, Shall have a rope of palm fiber round her neck.” (Qur’an 111:1-5)

25) What are you not allowed to do in Sujood?
Make dua in Arabic
Recite Quran ✔️
Make dua in another language
Recite adhkar
The Prophet ﷺ said: “I have been forbidden to recite the Quran in the state of bowing and prostration. So whilst bowing, extol the Lord in it, and while you are in prostration strive your hardest supplicating, as it is most likely that you will be responded to.” [Muslim]

26) Which Surah doesn’t begin with the basmallah?
Surah Rahman
Surah Yasin
Surah Fatihah
Surah Tawbah ✔️
Imam an-Nawawi (r) said:

“He should always recite Bismillah ir-Rahmaan ir-Raheem at the beginning of every Surah except Surah Baraa’ah (at-Tawbah), because the majority of scholars said that it is a verse wherever it is written in the Mushaf, and it was written at the beginning of all the soorahs except Surah at-Tawbah.

If he recites it at the beginning of every soorah (other than at-Tawbah), then there is certainty that he had recited the entire Qur’an or Surah, and if he fails to recite the Basmalah, he has omitted part of the Qur’an according to the majority.”

(at-Tibyaan fi Adaab Hamalat al-Qur’aan, 100)

27) How did Abu Hurairah (ra) stop forgetting and had an amazing memory?
The Prophet ﷺ made dua for him (r)
The Prophet ﷺ blessed his (r) clothing sheet ✔️
He (r) ate lots of nuts
He (r) drank a lot of milk
Abu Hurairah (r) reported: I said, “O Messenger of Allah, I hear many traditions from you and I forget them.”;

The Prophet (s) said: “Spread open your garment.”; I spread it and then he placed something from his hand into it, saying, “Wrap it.”.

I wrapped it around me and I never forgot a tradition ever again.

(Sahih Bukhari 3448)

28) What is Abu Bakr (r)’s full name?
Abdur Rahman ibn Uthman
Uthman ibn Abdullah
Abdullah ibn Uthman ✔️
Abdullah ibn Abdur Rahman
His full name is Abdullah bin Abu Quhafah Uthman bin Aamer Al Qurashi Al Taymi. His lineage joins with that of the Prophet ﷺ six generations before himself, in Murrah Ben Kaab.

29) For whom is this dua for? – Rabbir Humhumma Kama Rabba Yaani Sahgeera
Children
Parents ✔️
Whole Ummah
The Deceased
“My Lord! Be merciful to them as they raised me when I was young.” (Quran 17:24)

30) Why does Allah allow suffering to happen? 2 answers.
Because life is a test ✔️
Because we were born to suffer
Because Allah likes us to suffer
Because we appreciate the good even more
“We will certainly test you with a touch of fear and famine and loss of property, life, and crops. Give good news to those who patiently endure.” (Quran 2:155)

31) How many gates of Jannah are there?
5
6
7
8 ✔️
The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘Whoever performs Wudu’ and does it well, then says: “Ashhadu an la ilaha ill-Allah was ashhadu anna Muhammadan ‘abduhu wa rasuluh (I bear witness that there is none worthy of worship except Allah, and I bear witness that Muhammad is his slave and Messenger),” eight gates of Paradise will be opened for him, and he may enter through whichever one he wishes.'”

(Sunan Nisaai, Sahih)

32) What is not one of the conditions of the Shahada?
Knowledge (Ilm)
Submission (Inqiyad)
Memorisation (Hifz) ✔️
Sincerity (Ikhlas)
Read about a number of conditions of the Shahada

33) Who was the only person did the Prophet ﷺ pray a full rakat behind?
Abu Bakr (r)
Umar ibn al Khattab (r)
Abdur Rahman ibn Awf (r) ✔️
Bilal ibn Rabah (r)
In the wording of Ahmad: “Al-Mugheerah Ibn Shu’bah said: “…I saw the Prophet ﷺ praying behind Abdur-Rahmaan Ibn ‘Awf one Rak’ah of Fajr [as he had missed one Rak’ah] and I saw the Prophet ﷺ, wiping over his socks.”

34) Which fruit is mentioned in the Quran?
Grapes ✔️
Apples
Mangoes
Oranges
“By means of it We produce gardens of dates and grapes for you, in which there are many fruits for you and from which you eat. (23:19)”

35) Where is it not allowed to pray Salah? (2 answers)
Inside the Kaaba
On top of the Kaaba ✔️
Graveyard ✔️
Market
Ibn ‘Umar relates that the Prophet ﷺ in seven places: “dunghills, slaughterhouses, graveyards, middle of the road, bathhouses, watering places where the camels drink and rest, and onthe roof of the house of Allah [the Ka’bah in Makkah].” [Ibn Majah, ‘Abd ibn Humaid, and Tirmidhi] 

36) What is another name given to the Quran?
Ar-Rahmaan
Al-Baqarah
Al-Furqan ✔️
Al-Sahih
“The month of Ramadan in which was revealed the Quran, a guidance for mankind and clear proofs for the guidance and the criterion (between right and wrong)…” (Quran 2:185)

37) Which Khalifah took control of Al-Aqsa in Jerusalem?
Abu Bakr (Radhi’Allah Annhu)
Umar ibn al-Khattab (Radhi’Allah Annhu) ✔️
Uthman ibn Affan (Radhi’Allah Annhu)
Ali ibn Abi Talib (Radhi’Allah Annhu)
The Bishop of Jerusalem handed over the keys of the city of Jerusalem to Umar ibn Al-Khattab. No killing or destruction was carried out by Muslims. It was a peaceful transition and all the holy sites of Christians were left untouched.

Caliph Umar signed a treaty with Sophronius and as a result, Christians were allowed to live in the city, but must pay jizya, or tax. Read more.

38) What is the consultation between the Muslim leader and the followers called? 
Ijma
Shura ✔️
Shariah
Daleel
Shura is an Arabic word that literally means consultation and, in its simplest form, as an Islamic principle. Chapter 42 of the Quran is called Ash-Shurra (The Consultation).

39) How many Prophets did Prophet Muhammad ﷺ meet on the different heavens during Isra wal Miraaj?
5
6
7
8 ✔️
Muhammad ﷺ met the Prophets Adam, Yahya (John), Isa (Jesus), Yusuf (Joseph), Idris, Harun (Aaron), Musa (Moses), and Ibrahim (Abraham) and visit hell and paradise.

40) In which battle did some Muslim archers disobey the order of Prophet Muhammad ﷺ?
Battle of Badr
Battle of Uhud ✔️
Battle of Khaybar
Battle of Khandaq
This is the mountain that the Prophet ﷺ  ordered the archers to remain on during the Battle of Uhud.

The number of archers was fifty men who were in charge of protecting the backs of the Muslim fighters.

They disobeyed the orders of the Prophet ﷺ as they thought that the battle was over.

Read about it
41) At what age does a person become an adult in Islam?
18 years old
10 years old
Puberty ✔️
15 years old
Prophet Muhammad ﷺ said: “The pen is lifted from three people: a sleeping person until he awakens, a child until he becomes an adult, and an insane person until he regains his sanity.”

In another narration, the Prophet said, “A young boy until he reaches puberty.” (Sunan al-Tirmidhī 1423)

42) Who is one of the 4 best women of Jannah?
Aasiya (wife of Firawn) ✔️
Hajar (wife of Ibrahim (as))
Aisha (wife of Muhammad ﷺ)
Ruqayyah (wife of Uthman)
Prophet Muhammad ﷺ said: “The best of women among the people of Paradise are Khadija bint Khuwaylid, Fatimah bint Muhammad, Maryam bint ‘Imran, and ‘Asiyah bint Muzahim, the wife of Pharaoh.” (Musnad Aḥmad 2896)

43) Which Prophet (as) is mentioned the most in the Quran by name?
Prophet Muhammad ﷺ
Prophet Isa (as)
Prophet Musa (as) ✔️
Prophet Adam (as)
He was mentioned 136 times. He was mentioned the most in the Quran, as his story and the morals within them transcends time and has great value in Islamic history. Read about all the Prophets mentioned and the number of times.

44) What is the linguistic meaning of Taraweeh?
To rest ✔️
To pray
To stay up
To sleep
The Word Taraweeh ( تراويح ) comes from an Arabic word. The root word of Tarabih (Taraweeh) is rauh or raha. In the Arabic language, Rauh or Raha means taking rest.

45) What is the linguistic meaning of Ramadan?
To fast
To suffer
To burn the sins ✔️
To race
Imam Qurtubi said: “It (this month) was named Ramaḍān because it burns the sins of people with righteous deeds.”

46) The scholars have divided shirk into how many types?
2 ✔️
3
4
5
Two types – Major and Minor Shirk. Read all about them.

47) Which pillar was commanded in the journey of al Isra wal Miraaj?
Fasting Ramadan
Performing Hajj
Praying 5 Times Salah ✔️
Paying Zakat
Al-Bukhaari (349) and Muslim (162) narrated from Anas ibn Maalik (r) the famous hadeeth of the Isra’ (Prophet’s Night Journey) in which it is reported that the Messenger of Allah ﷺ said:

“Then Allah revealed what He revealed to me, and enjoined fifty prayers on me every day and night. I came back to Moosa (as) and he said: What did your Lord enjoin upon your ummah? I said: Fifty prayers. He said: Go back to your Lord and ask Him to reduce it… I kept going back and forth between my Lord, may He be blessed and exalted, and Moosa (peace be upon him), until He said: ‘O Muhammad, they are five prayers each day and night, for every prayer there will be a tenfold (reward), and that is fifty prayers.”

48) For whom bad deeds are not written?
Before puberty age ✔️
After puberty age
Sick people
Non-Muslims
The Messenger of Allah, ﷺ said, “The pen is lifted from three people: a sleeping person until he awakens, a child until he becomes an adult, and an insane person until he regains his sanity.”

In another narration, the Prophet ﷺ said, “A young boy until he reaches puberty.”

[Sunan al-Tirmidhī 1423 | Sahih]

49) Which Angel is Hellfire’s gatekeeper?
Jibraeel (as)
Mikaeel (as)
Maalik (as) ✔️
Israfeel (as)
“Surely, the disbelievers will be in the torment of Hell to abide therein forever. (The torment) will not be lightened for them, and they will be plunged into destruction with deep regrets, sorrows and in despair therein. We wronged them not, but they were the wrongdoers.

And they will cry: ‘O Malik! Let your Lord make an end of us’ He will say: ‘Surely, you shall abide forever.’  Indeed We have brought the truth to you, but most of you have a hatred for the truth” (Quran 43:74-78)

50) What is the hidden Shirk?
Drinking alcohol & gambling
Gossiping & lying
Showing off your good deeds ✔️
Keeping your good deeds secret
Abu Sa’eed (r) narrated that the Prophet ﷺ said:

“Shall I not tell you about that which I fear more for you than the Dajjaal?” We said: “Yes.” He said: “Hidden Shirk; which is when a man stands to pray and makes it look good because he sees a man looking at him.” [Ahmad and Ibn Maajah. Al-Haakim classified it as authentic]

51) How many times was Prophet Muhammad (peace be upon him)’s heart physically washed by Angel Jibraeel?
0
1
2 ✔️
3
The first occurred when he was small and living among Banu Sa’d. The second occurred on the night of the Isra’. Read all about it.

52) Which is the correct order of Prophet Muhammad ﷺ marriages to these 4 wives?
Aisha, Khadija, Zaynab & Hafsa
Khadija, Aisha, Hafsa & Zaynab ✔️
Khadija, Hafsa, Aisha & Zaynab
Aisha, Hafsa, Khadija & Zaynab
Read about the mothers of the believers.

53) Which of the following is not part of Tawheed Ar-Rububiyyah?
Allah alone created everything
Allah alone do we worship ✔️
Allah alone owns everything
Allah alone controls everything
The oneness of Allah’s Lordship (Tawheed Ar Rububiyyah) is the belief that Allah alone has created the universe, that He alone is its Provider and Sustainer, and that He has complete ownership and power over His creation.

In other words, Allah is one and unique in regard to His actions, such that no creature shares His power in creating and managing the universe. Read more.

54) What should you do if you forget to say Bismillah before eating?
Say Astaghfirullah
Say Bismillah
Say Bismillah Awwalahu wa Aakhiruhu ✔️
It’s ok, keep eating
Prophet Muhammad ﷺ said: “When one of you eats, let him mention the name of Allah. If he forgets to mention the name of Allah at the beginning, let him say: In the name of Allah at the beginning and at the end (Bismillahi awwalahu wa aakhirahu).” (Abu Dawud 3767, Tirmidhi 1858 & Ibn Majah 3264)

55) Why did the Muslims change their qibla (prayer direction) from Jerusalem to Makkah?
They hated the Jews
Prophet Muhammad ﷺ wanted to do so
Allah commanded it ✔️
The sahaba wanted to do so
“So turn your face [i.e., yourself] toward al-Masjid al-Haram. And wherever you [believers] are, turn your faces [i.e., yourselves] toward it [in prayer]…” (Quran 2:144)

56) Reciting Surah Fatiha in each rakat of the salah is…
Optional
Encouraged
Not necessary
A must ✔️
Prophet Muhammad ﷺ said: “There is no prayer for the one who does not recite the Opening of the Book [i.e., al-Fatiha].” (Bukhari 714)

57) What was the first masjid Prophet Muhammad (peace be upon him) built?
Masjid Quba ✔️
Masjid an Nabawi
Masjid al Haram
Masjid al Aqsa
Ibn al-Qayyim (r) said in Zaad al-Ma’aad (3/58), when describing the arrival of the Messenger ﷺ in Madeenah:

The Muslims said takbeer, rejoicing at his arrival, and they went out to meet him… He continued until he stopped in Quba’, among Banu ‘Amr ibn ‘Awf, and he stayed among them for fourteen days, and founded the mosque of Quba’, which is the first mosque to be established after the beginning of his Prophethood.

58) What was the name of the flying animal on which Prophet Muhammad (peace be upon him) travelled to the heavens?
Mikaeel
Buraaq ✔️
Miraaj
Suraaq
It was during the night journey to the heavens. Read about it.

59) What is the reward for reciting Surah Ikhlas 10 times?
A palace in Paradise ✔️
A huge tree in Paradise
A special fountain in Paradise
A delicious meal in Paradise
The Prophet ﷺ said, “Whoever recites the chapter ten times completely, ‘He is Allah, the One’ (112:1), Allah will build a palace for him in Paradise.” (Musnad Ahmad 15183 | Sahih (authentic) Al-Albani)

60) Who is the only Sahaba whose name is mentioned in the Quran?
Abu Bakr as Siddiq (r)
Zayd ibn Haarith (r) ✔️
Umar ibn al Khattab (r)
Khalid ibn Waleed (r)
“…So when Zayd had no longer any need for her, We married her to you…” (Quran 33:37)
61) Which act will not break Wudu?
Saying bad words ✔️
Fainting
Touching private part without barrier
Eating camel meat
Here are 7 things that nullify Wudu.

62) Which pillar was commanded in the journey of al Isra wal Miraaj?
Fasting Ramadan
Performing Hajj
Praying 5 times a day ✔️
Paying Zakat
Al-Bukhari (349) and Muslim (162) narrated from Anas ibn Maalik (r) the famous hadeeth of the Isra’ (Prophet’s Night Journey) in which it is reported that the Messenger of Allah ﷺ said:

“Then Allah revealed what He revealed to me, and enjoined fifty prayers on me every day and night. I came back to Musa (as) and he said: What did your Lord enjoin upon your ummah? I said: Fifty prayers.

He said: Go back to your Lord and ask Him to reduce it… I kept going back and forth between my Lord, may He be blessed and exalted, and Musa (peace be upon him), until He said: ‘O Muhammad, they are five prayers each day and night, for every prayer there will be a tenfold (reward), and that is fifty prayers.”

63) How old was Prophet Muhammad (peace be upon him) when he got the first revelation?
25 years old
35 years old
40 years old ✔️
63 years old
It was in the year 610. Read about he ﷺ received the revelation of the Quran.

64) What does Tawheed mean?
Belief in Prophet Muhammad ﷺ
Belief in the Angels (as)
Belief the Oneness of Allah ✔️
Belief in the Day of Judgement
Read all about Tawheed and it’s categories.

65) Who narrated the most number of ahadeeth?
Abu Hurayrah (r) ✔️
Abdullah ibn Umar (r)
Anas ibn Maalik (r)
Aisha bint Abu Bakr (r)
Abu Hurayrah (Abdur-Rahman) d.59 AH at the age of 78; he narrated 5,374 Ahadith. The number of his students reaches 800.

66) What does Shirk mean?
Putting partners to Allah ✔️
Lying to others
Killing others
Disobeying parents
Read all about Shirk and its types.

67) Which is not one of the 5 pillars of Islam?
Ramadan
Praying the 5 Salah
Zakat
Paradise ✔️
Islam is based on five pillars which the Messenger ﷺ  has explained for us, when he said: “Islam is built upon five [pillars]: the testimony that there is no god but Allah and that Muhammad is the Messenger of Allah; establishing regular prayer (salah); paying the zakaah; Hajj (pilgrimage) and fasting Ramadan.” (Bukhari, 8) 

68) How many Prophets (as) are mentioned by name in the Quran?
25 ✔️
313
110,000
124,000
Read about who are they and how many times each is mentioned.

69) When will the Prophet ﷺ intercede for us?
In his ﷺ grave
On the Day of Resurrection ✔️
In our graves
On the Sirat
Allah says: “It may be that your Lord will raise you to Maqaam Mahmood (a station of praise and glory, i.e., the honour of intercession on the Day of Resurrection)” [Quran 17:79]. Read all the of the different types of intercessions he ﷺ will do.

70) Which 3 types of people Jibraeel (as) & the Prophet (ﷺ) cursed? (Select 3)?
The one who doesn’t serve his elderly parents ✔️
The one who doesn’t gain forgiveness in Ramadan ✔️
The one who doesn’t send salawat upon the Prophet (ﷺ) when hearing his (ﷺ) name ✔️
The one who doesn’t reply to salaam
Kaab Ibn Ujrah (radiallahu anhu) relates that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: “Come near to the minbar”, and we came near the minbar.

When he climbed the first step of the minbar, he said “Amin”, When he ascended the second step, he said “Amin”, When he climbed the third step, he said “Amin”. When he came down, We said: “O Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), we have heard from you today something which we never heard before.”

He said: “When I climbed the first step, the angel Jibreel (alayhi salam) appeared before me and said: “Destruction to him who found the blessed month of Ramadhan and let it pass by without gaining forgiveness”, upon that I said ‘Amin’.

When I climbed the second step, he said: “Destruction to him before whom your name is taken and then he does not make Du’a for Allah’s blessing on me (by saying, for example sallallahu alayhi wasalam).”, I replied ‘Amin’.

When I climbed the third step, he said: “Destruction unto him in whose lifetime his parents or either one of them reaches old age, and (through failure to serve them) he is not allowed to enter Jannah”., I said ‘Amin’.”

[Ibn Hibbaan, 3/188; also narrated by Al-Baihaqi and Al-Haakim; classed as saheeh by Shaykh Al-Albani in Saheeh al-Targheeb, 1679]

71) The angels at the Battle of Badr copied which sahabi’s yellow turban?
Sa’ad ibn Abi Waqqas (r)
Bilal ibn Rabbah (r)
Zubayr ibn Awwam (r) ✔️
Ali ibn Abi Taalib (r)
Ibn Hajar (rahimahullah) has written that Imam Ibn Sa’d (rahimahullah) has recorded a narration with an authentic chain stating that Zubayr (radiyallahu’anhu) wore a yellow turban on the day of Badr.

Rasulullah (sallallahu’alayhi wasallam) then said:’Indeed the Angels descended [to assist the Muslim army] in the same sign [clothing] as Zubayr.’

(Tabaqat Ibn Sa’d, vol.3 pg.103 & Al-Isabah, number: 2796)

72) Why we should not curse time?
Because it will bring bad luck
Because Allah says He is Time ✔️
Because Allah says He will cut our time
Because it will bring good luck
Prophet Muhammad (ﷺ) said: “Allah says, ‘The sons of Adam offend Me and say, Woe to time, but they should not say Woe to time. I am time, I alternate the night and the day, and if I willed, I could seize them both.’” (Muslim 5827). Click here to learn more about this hadith.

73) In Islam, the one who doesn’t acknowledge the rights of the elders is..
Acceptable at times
Not from the Muslims ✔️
Punished in Hellfire forever
Same as being a murderer
Prophet Muhammad ﷺ said: “Whoever does not show mercy to our young ones, or acknowledge the rights of our elders, is not one of us.” (Musnad Aḥmad 7033 | Sahih (authentic) according to Ahmad Shakir)

74) What is the name of Madinah in the Quran?
Bakkah
Quds
Marwah
Yathrib ✔️
“And when a faction of them said, “O people of Yathrib, there is no stability for you [here], so return [home].”

And a party of them asked permission of the Prophet, saying, “Indeed, our houses are unprotected,” while they were not exposed. They did not intend except to flee.” (Quran 33:13)

75) According to the Prophet ﷺ, honesty leads to what? (2 answers)?
Life span increase
Righteousness ✔️
Paradise ✔️
Children increase
Prophet Muhammad ﷺ said: “You must be truthful. Verily, truthfulness leads to righteousness and righteousness leads to Paradise. A man continues to be truthful and encourages honesty until he is recorded with Allah as truthful.

And beware of falsehood. Verily, falsehood leads to wickedness and wickedness leads to the Hellfire. A man continues tell lies and encourages falsehood until he is recorded with Allah as a liar.” (Sahih Bukhari 6094 & Sahih Muslim 2607)

76) In sujood, which body part shouldn’t be touching the ground?
Forearms ✔️
Nose
Feet
Hands
Prophet Muhammad ﷺ said: “Be straight in prostration and let none of you put his forearms on the ground like a dog.” (Sahih al-Bukhari 788, Sahih Muslim 493)

77) Which wife of the Prophet ﷺ had children and was a widow when he ﷺ married her?
Hafsa (r)
Khadija (r)
Zaynab bint Jahsh (r)
Umm Salamah (r) ✔️
Find out short descriptions of the mothers of the believers.

78) Which of the following is the name of Allah with the meaning – The Most Loving One?
Al-Majeed
Al-Wadud ✔️
Al-Muqtadir
Al-Waarith
“Wahuwa l-Ghafūru l-Wadūd”

“And He is the Most-Forgiving, the Most-Loving,” (Qur’an 85:14)

79) Which battle happened in Ramadan?
Battle of Badr ✔️
Battle of Khandaq
Battle of Uhud
Battle of Hunayn
Find out all about the battle.

80) How many times more reward does one gets for praying salah inside Masjid al Aqsa?
250 times more
500 times more ✔️
1,000 times more
50,000 times more
Prophet Muhammad ﷺ said: “A prayer in Makkah (Ka’bah) is worth 100,000 times (reward), a prayer in my Masjid (Madinah) is worth 1,000 times and a prayer in Al-Aqsa Sanctuary is worth 500 times more reward than anywhere else.” [Tabarani, Bayhaqi, Suyuti]
81) Allah says, with His knowledge, He is more closer to us than our ________?
Thoughts
Heart
Jugular Vein ✔️
Blood
“And indeed We have created man, and We know whatever thoughts his inner self develops, and We are closer to him than (his) jugular vein.” (Quran 50:16)

82) Which Prophet (as) was tested with a severe illness by Allah?
Prophet Yusuf (as)
Prophet Ayub (as) ✔️
Prophet Idris (as)
Prophet Musa (as)
Read a short bio of this Prophet (as)’s life here.

83) What is the virtue for praying the 4 voluntary salah before and after Dhuhr fardh salah?
Protection from Hellfire ✔️
Palace in Jannah
1000 sins forgiven
1000 good deeds written
Prophet Muhammad ﷺ said: “Whoever prays four (rak’ahs) before Dhuhr and four after it, the Fire will not touch him.” (Al-Nasaa’i 1817 and al-Tirmidhi 428)

84) When does Allah say we should say Innā lillāhi wa innā ilayhi rāji‘ūn?
Only at someone’s death
When any calamity happens ✔️
Wishing someone dies
When you read it in the Quran
Allah says: “We will certainly test you with a touch of fear and famine and loss of property, life, and crops. Give good news to those who patiently endure—

who, when faced with a disaster, say, “Surely to Allah we belong and to Him we will ˹all˺ return.” (Quran 2:155-156)

85) What is the encouraged Sunnah way to show appreciation to a fellow Muslim for his/her kind act?
Saying Jazak’Allahu Khayr ✔️
Saying Jazak’Allahu
Saying Thank You
Saying Well Done
Prophet Muhammad ﷺ said: “Whoever has a favour done for him and says to the one who did it, ‘Jazak Allaahu khayran,’ has done enough to thank him.” (Tirmidhi 1958 & Nasaa’i in al-Sunan al-Kubra (6/53) | Hasan by Al-Albani)

86) What is the Arabic word for Allah’s inspiration or revelation to a Prophet (as) called?
Seerah
Wahyi ✔️
Iqra
Daleel
Read about what truly is revelation from Allah.

87) Which side did Prophet Muhammad ﷺ encourage us not to sleep on?
Back side
Left side
Right side
Stomach side ✔️
Ya’eesh ibn Tihfah al-Ghifaari reported that his father said:

“I stayed as a guest with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) with those of the poor whom he hosted. The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) came out in the night to check up on his guests, and saw me lying on my stomach.

He prodded me with his foot and said, ‘Do not lie in this manner, for it is a way of lying that Allah hates.’”

According to another report, the Prophet (ﷺ) prodded him with his foot and woke him up, and said, “Do not lie like this, for this is how the people of Hell lie.”

(Reported by Ahmad, al-Fath al-Rabbaani, 14/244-245; by al-Tirmidhi, no. 2798, Shaakir edn.; and by Abu Dawood, al-Sunan, Kitaab al-Adab, no. 5040, al-Da’aas edn. Also reported in Saheeh al-Jaami’, 2270-2271)

88) One type of minor shirk is the hidden shirk, what is it?
Showing off ✔️
Saying bad words
Being selfish
Not praying salah
Abu Sa’id al-Khudri reported: The Messenger of Allah, peace and blessings be upon him, came to us while we were discussing the False Messiah.

The Prophet ﷺ said, “Shall I not tell you about my greater fear for you than the False Messiah?” We said, “Of course!”

The Prophet ﷺ said, “It is hidden idolatry, that a man stands for prayer and beautifies his prayer when he sees another man looking at him.” (Sunan Ibn Mājah 4204)

89) What are the two benefits of maintaining family ties?
Increase in provision ✔️
Status of a martyr
Status of a Quran hafidh
Increase in life ✔️
The Prophet ﷺ said: “Whoever would like his rizq (provision) to be increased and his life to be extended, should uphold the ties of kinship.” (Bukhari 5986 and Muslim 2557)

90) Which body part(s) shouldn’t be touching the floor during sujood?
Toes
Nose
Fingers
Elbows ✔️
The Prophet ﷺ said:

“Be straight in the prostrations and none of you should put his forearms on the ground (in the prostration) like a dog.” (Al-Bukhari)

91) Prophet Muhammad ﷺ said he ﷺ and Prophet Isa (as) are like what?
Father and son
Brothers ✔️
Cousins
Friends
The Prophet ﷺ said: “I am the closest of the people to Jesus the son of Mary in this life and in the Hereafter.” It was said, “How is that, O Messenger of Allah?”

The Prophet ﷺ said,“The prophets are brothers from one father with different mothers. They have one religion and there was no other prophet between us.” (Sahih Muslim 2365)

92) Who was the only human to whom Allah blew the soul into him by Himself?
Prophet Muhammad (ﷺ)
Prophet Isa (as)
Prophet Musa (as)
Prophet Adam (as) ✔️
Prophet Muhammad ﷺ said: ”When Allah created Adam, He breathed the soul into him, then he sneezed and said: ‘All praise is due to Allah.’ So he praised Allah by His permission. Then His Lord said to him: ‘May Allah have mercy upon you O Adam…” (Tirmidhi 3367, Hasan)

93) What does Allah’s name Al-Musawwir mean?
The Fashioner ✔️
The Provider
The Judge
The Most High
Allah says:  “He is Allah: the Creator, the Inventor, the Shaper…” (Quran 59:24)

94) For which 2 reasons can a Muslim keep a dog?
Protection ✔️
As a pet
For racing
For hunting ✔️
Prophet Muhammad ﷺ said: “Whoever keeps a dog, his good deeds will decrease every day by one qeeraat (a unit of measurement), unless it is a dog for farming or herding.” According to another report: “. . . unless it is a dog for herding sheep, farming or hunting.” (Sahih Bukhari 2322)

95) During which battle did Prophet Muhammad (s) strIke a massive rock once and it got smashed into pieces?
Battle of Badr
Battle of Uhud
Battle of Khandaq ✔️
Battle of Tabuk
Read all about the miraculous event.

96) When is our Dua more readily accepted? 2 answers
During sunshine
During rain ✔️
If being oppressed ✔️
If going through ease
Prophet Muhammad ﷺ said: “Two (du‘as) are not rejected: du‘a at the time of the call to prayer and du‘a at the time of rain.” (al-Hakim in al-Mustadrak (2534); at-Tabarani in al-Mu‘jam al-Kabir (5756); classed as sahih by al-Albani in Sahih al-Jami‘ (3078).)

Prophet Muhammad ﷺ said: “The supplications of three are never turned back: a fasting person until he breaks his fast, a just leader, and the supplication of the oppressed is raised above the clouds by Allah, the gates of heaven open for it and the Lord says: By My might, I will surely help you in due time.” (Sunan al-Tirmidhī 3598, Hasan)

97) Prophet Muhammad ﷺ said he’s the answer of which Prophet (as)’s Dua?
Prophet Isa (as)
Prophet Musa (as)
Prophet Ibraheem (as)✔️
Prophet Adam (as)
Prophet Muhammad ﷺ said: “I am the supplication of my forefather Ibraheem (as).” (Ibn Hisham, Sira: 1/175; Tabari, Tarikh: 2/128.)

98) Prophet Muhammad ﷺ encouraged rinsing the mouth with water after having which item?
Dates
Milk ✔️
Lamb
Bread
Prophet Muhammad ﷺ drank some milk and rinsed his mouth. The Prophet ﷺ said: “It contains fatty grease.” (Sahih Bukhari 208, Sahih Muslim 358)
